---
title: Leetcode 1497 - Check If Array Pairs Are Divisible by k
author: chikuma
date: 2022-11-06 20:00:00 -0800
categories: [Leetcode]
tags: [Programming, Leetcode]
render_with_liquid: false
---

[Link to problem](https://leetcode.com/problems/check-if-array-pairs-are-divisible-by-k/)

## Problem
Given an array of integers `arr` of even length `n` and an integer `k`.

We want to divide the array into exactly `n / 2` pairs such that the sum of each pair is divisible by `k`.

Return `true` If you can find a way to do that or `false` otherwise.

## Approach

At first glance, I thought this is a bit similar to two sum, probably a bit more
complex. Therefore, my first attempt was implementing the algorithm using hash
map. As we know about the properties of remainder, if the sum two numbers are
divisible by k, the sum of both number's remainder divided by k will can be
divided by k. 

## Solution

1. Form a hash map `remainderCount`, which stores the number of different remainders using `arr`.
But keep in mind that there are negative numbers in the test cases. However, we
could solve this problem by shifting the input numbers by adding k after doing
mod k. By doing so we are sure that all the numbers will be positive integers.
But now the numbers are not the remainder of k, so do another mod k to it.

2. Now having the hash map ready, we could now determine the result using the
following conditions when iterating through the hashmap:
    
    A. Remainder equals to 0. This in this case we need to check if the number
    that has remainder of 0 is even or not. If it is odd, then we could not pair
    it and should return false.
    
    B. We could not found number with remainder equals to `k - iterated remainder`
    , which means we could not find a number that combined with the iterated
    number that could be divisible by `k`.
    
    C. There exist `k - iterated number` and in order to pair those number, 
    the count of the iterated number must equal to the count of `k - iterated number`.
    If they are not equal, we could not pair it, return false.

3. If every number passes the condition mentioned above, that means we could
pair every number in the input array to be divisible by k. Return true.

## Implementation

```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    bool canArrange(vector<int>& arr, int k) {
        unordered_map<int, int> remainderCount;

        for (int i = 0; i < arr.size(); i++) {
            arr[i] = (arr[i] % k) + k;
            remainderCount[arr[i] % k]++;
        }      

        for (auto p: remainderCount) {
            if (p.first == 0) {
                if (p.second % 2 != 0) return false;
            }
            else if (remainderCount.find(k - p.first) == remainderCount.end()) {
                return false;
            }
            else if (remainderCount[k - p.first] != p.second) {
                return false;
            }
        }

        return true;
    }
};
```
