---
title: Leetcode 1792 - Maximum Average Pass Ratio
author: chikuma
date: 2022-11-11 00:30:00 -0800
categories: [Leetcode]
tags: [Programming, Leetcode]
render_with_liquid: false
---

[Link to Problem](https://leetcode.com/problems/maximum-average-pass-ratio/description/)

## Problem

There is a school that has classes of students and each class will be having a
final exam. You are given a 2D integer array classes, where classes
`[i] = [passi, totali]`. You know beforehand that in the ith class, there are
`totali` total students, but only `passi` number of students will pass the exam.

You are also given an integer `extraStudents`. There are another `extraStudents`
brilliant students that are guaranteed to pass the exam of any class they are
assigned to. You want to assign each of the `extraStudents` students to a class
in a way that maximizes the average pass ratio across all the classes.

The pass ratio of a class is equal to the number of students of the class that
will pass the exam divided by the total number of students of the class. The
average pass ratio is the sum of pass ratios of all the classes divided by the
number of the classes.

Return the maximum possible average pass ratio after assigning the
`extraStudents` students.

## Approach

This problem is quite straight forward, to maximize the average pass ratio,
we need to get the class that could improve the most when adding one to the
pass ratio's numerator and denominator. Therefore, a heap, or
`std::priority_queue` could help us achieve this. The rest could be done in a
greedy manner.

## Solution

1. Form a heap sorted by the maximum possible improvement of class.
2. For number of `extraStudents`, pop the class from the top of the heap and
add one to its nominator and denominator. Push back.
3. Accumulate all class' pass ratio and return the average.

## Implementation

**Special Note: If using `std::vector<int, int>` to store the classes, it will
result in TLE for some reason.** The very naive guess for this is because
`std::pair` is a more simpler implementation in STL compared to `std::vector`.

```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    double maxAverageRatio(vector<vector<int>>& classes, int extraStudents) {
        auto compare = [](const pair<int, int>& a, const pair<int, int>& b) {
            double diffA = ((double)(a.first+1)/(a.second+1)) - ((double)a.first/a.second);
            double diffB = ((double)(b.first+1)/(b.second+1)) - ((double)b.first/b.second);
            return diffA < diffB;
        };

        priority_queue<pair<int, int>, vector<pair<int, int>>, decltype(compare)> heap(compare);

        for (auto c: classes) {
            heap.push({c[0], c[1]});
        }

        for (int i = 0; i < extraStudents; i++) {
            auto temp = heap.top();
            heap.pop();
            temp.first++; temp.second++;
            heap.push(temp);
        }

        double sum = 0;
        while (!heap.empty()) {
            sum += ((double)heap.top().first / (double)heap.top().second);
            heap.pop();
        }

        return sum / classes.size();
    }
};
```
