---
title: Leetcode 1711 - Count Good Meals 
author: chikuma
date: 2022-11-14 22:00:00 -0800
categories: [Leetcode]
tags: [Programming, Leetcode]
render_with_liquid: false
---

[Link to Problem](https://leetcode.com/problems/count-good-meals/description/)

## Problem

A **good meal** is a meal that contains exactly two different food items with a
sum of deliciousness equal to a power of two.

You can pick any two different foods to make a good meal.

Given an array of integers `deliciousness` where `deliciousness[i]` is the
deliciousness of the `i`​​​​​​th​​​​​​​​ item of food, return the number of different good
meals you can make from this list *modulo* $10^9 + 7$.

Note that items with different indices are considered different even if they
have the same deliciousness value.

## Approach

Another problem that is quite similar to 
[Two Sum](https://leetcode.com/problems/two-sum/) so we could know that we
probably need to use an `unordered_map`. However, different from Two Sum, the
target sum of two numbers is any number that is power of 2. And we are counting
the possibile combinations, note that **different indices are considered
different**.

Therefore, to solve this problem, we are using the `unordered_map` to store
**the current count** of `deliciousness[i]`. And when iterated to another number
that combined with `deliciousness[i]` is power of 2, we could know that the
combinations available for the number equals to the count. Storing the current
count prevents the algorithm from counting duplicates.

## Solution

1. Setup a list of numbers that are power of 2, {$1, 2, 4, ..., 2^{30}$} for
checking if the num equals to any of the numbers later.
2. Iterate through `deliciousness` and check if there are number exist in hash
map that combined with the number is power of 2. If there is, add the count of
good meal with the count of `num_power_of_2 - deliciousnedd[i]` in the hast map.
3. Add one to the hash map of the iterated number.

## Implementation

```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    int countPairs(vector<int>& deliciousness) {
        int count = 0;
        std::unordered_map<int, int> numCount;
        std::vector<int> powerList(31);

        for (int i = 0; i < 31; i++) {
            powerList[i] = 1 << i;
        }

        for (int i = 0; i < deliciousness.size(); i++) {
            
            for (auto p: powerList) {
                if (numCount.count(p - deliciousness[i])) {
                    count += numCount[p - deliciousness[i]];
                    count %= 1000000007;
                }
            }

            numCount[deliciousness[i]]++;
        }

        return count;
    }
};
```