---
title: Holo Bot
author: chikuma
date: 2022-11-05 20:00:00 -0800
categories: [Blogging]
tags: [Programming, Java]
render_with_liquid: false
---

Holo Bot is one of my projects that is still being maintained. It is a discord
bot that checkes web servies and help notify users with new contents. After
some years (2, to be more specific), many more functionality has been added.

Here are a list of tricks it could do:
* Check today's hololive member stream schedule.
* Check members that are currently streaming.
* Share twitter posts related to hololive member in channels.
* @ a lot of people (which makes me happy) and notify them that their oshi are
going live.
* Verify their YT channel membership status and give them discord roles
according to their status.
* Roll a dice! For some reason, many users use this feature to decide what are
they going to eat for lunch.

It all started back in 2020 when my fellow 35P, Ben DMed me and asked if I
could develope a discord bot that could broadcast twitter posts faster. By the
time what we had is a discord bot using IFTTT service, which the update speed
was abysmal. And yes, we knew that we could pay to make it faster. However, it
would be nice if we could have better services without spending any dollar
right? And afterall, we are software engineers. So I build a discord bot, that
interacts with Twitter's API, hosted it on Oracle cloud's free tier VM and there
we have it, a faster bot with 0 cost. 

For me it is a platform that I could try out many new things, think about 
software designs and try implement them. This is the first time that I try to
implement REST service, which I did not know when interviewing with GOGORO for
a intern job (and did not got the job probably because of this). Moreover,
although Java the programming language is deemed as one of the languages that
could not keep up with time and gradually drop out of favor among the developer
community, it is still great and many still runs on it. Therefore, using Java
could probably open up some opportunity for me when finding a job later on.

When looking back, this is probably the project that I have kept to support for
the longest time. And finding out that many on the discord server use what I
have built brings me pure joy. It remindes me why I started programming.

If you want to check out the bot see:
* [Holo Bot](https://github.com/cst0601/Holo-Bot)
* [Holo Schedule API](https://github.com/cst0601/holo_schedule_api)