---
title: Leetcode 769 - Max Chunks To Make Sorted
author: chikuma
date: 2023-06-05 15:00:00 -0700
categories: [Leetcode]
tags: [Programming, Leetcode]
render_with_liquid: false
---

[Link to problem](https://leetcode.com/problems/max-chunks-to-make-sorted/description/)

## Problem


You are given an integer array `arr` of length `n` that represents a permutation
of the integers in the range `[0, n - 1]`.

We split `arr` into some number of chunks (i.e., partitions), and individually
sort each chunk. After concatenating them, the result should equal the sorted
array.

Return the *largest number of chunks* we can make to sort the array.

## Solution

This problem could be solved using monotonic stack. `GOTO`
[Monotonic Stack](#monotonic-stack) for some reference about the data structure.

We need a monotonic *increasing* stack for this one. A monotonically increasing
sequence means that every element could be a chunk. By maintaing a monotonic
stack, we ensure that the sequence before an element is definetly larger than
any number before it, which means that the elements popped when pushing another
element needed sorting and belongs to the same chunk. Therefore, by pushing the
element one by one into a monotonic stack, we could get the maximum chunk by
the size of the stack.

Since it is not very intuitive, belows is an example:
* Input sequence: `[1, 0, 2, 3, 4]`

1. 1 pushed onto stack.
2. When pushing 0 onto the stack, 1 is popped. (`[1, 0]` should be in a chunk)
3. 2 pushed onto stack.
4. 3 pushed onto stack.
5. 4 pushed onto stack.

Maximum chunks = 4, splitting into `[1, 0], [2], [3], [4]`.


### <ins>Monotonic Stack</ins>

[Reference](https://liuzhenglaichn.gitbook.io/algorithm/monotonic-stack)

A monotonic stack is a stack that has elements monotonically increasing /
decreasing. Therefore, for a monotonic increasing stack, if pushing an element
smaller then its top element, the stack will need to pop its elements until top
is smaller than the element to push to. An example is as follow:

> Original stack: `[0, 2, 5, 7, 9]`  pushing element `6` \
> After push operation: `[0, 2, 5, 6]`

## Implementation

```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    int maxChunksToSorted(vector<int>& arr) {
        stack<int> monoStack;   // monotonic increasing stack
        int largest;

        for (int n: arr) {
            largest = n;
            while (!monoStack.empty() && monoStack.top() > n) {
                largest = max(largest, monoStack.top());
                monoStack.pop();
            }
            monoStack.push(largest);
        }

        return monoStack.size();
    }
};
```



