---
title: Leetcode 11 - Container With Most Water
author: chikuma
date: 2023-10-27 17:00:00 -0700
categories: [Leetcode]
tags: [Programming, Leetcode]
render_with_liquid: false
---

[Link to problem](https://leetcode.com/problems/container-with-most-water/)

## Description

You are given an integer array `height` of length `n`. There are `n` vertical
lines drawn such that the two endpoints of the `ith` line are `(i, 0)` and `(i,
height[i])`.

Find two lines that together with the x-axis form a container, such that the
container contains the most water.

Return the maximum amount of water a container can store.

Notice that you may not slant the container.

## Solution

This problem could be solved easily with brute force (but you will get TLE).
However, we could find a pattern when trying to brute force it.

From the example input: `height = [1,8,6,2,5,4,8,3,7]`:
- We check the container size with `height[0]=1` as left and other values as
  right. Iterating from index `1` to `8`, the size of the container would be:
  `[1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8]`. We found that the size of the container is always
  limited by the smaller vertical line.
- Therefore, if we try to move the smaller vertical line we are potentially
  getting a larger container!

From the above observation we could solve this problem with two pointers. Let
the two pointers points to the start and end of the array heights. In each
iteration, if the pointers does not meet, we shift the pointer with a smaller
height left/right. At the same time we calculate the container size and keep
the largest number.

### If the heights we are comapring are equal...
It really does not matter which pointer we are moving.
- If one of the pointer now points to a larger height, the container size is
  still bounded by the smaller value. Moreover, our width is now one less.
  Therefore, the new container size must be smaller.
- If the new height is smaller than the preivous height. The container is
  smaller $\rightarrow$ not max area.

## Implementation

```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    int maxArea(vector<int>& height) {
        int i = 0, j = height.size() - 1;
        int output = 0;

        while (i < j) {
            int volume = (j - i) * min(height[i], height[j]);
            output = max(output, volume);

            (height[i] <= height[j])? i++: j--;
        }

        return output;
    }
};
```

```rs
impl Solution {
    pub fn max_area(height: Vec<i32>) -> i32 {
        let mut i = 0;
        let mut j = height.len() - 1;
        let mut output = 0;

        while i < j {
            let volume = (j - i) as i32 * std::cmp::min(height[i], height[j]);
            output = std::cmp::max(output, volume);

            if (height[i] <= height[j]) { i += 1; }
            else { j -= 1; }
        }

        output
    }
}
```
