---
title: Leetcode 376 - Wiggle Subsequence
author: chikuma
date: 2023-07-15 15:00:00 -0700
categories: [Leetcode]
tags: [Programming, Leetcode]
render_with_liquid: false
---

[Link to problem](https://leetcode.com/problems/wiggle-subsequence/)

## Problem

A **wiggle sequence** is a sequence where the differences between successive
numbers strictly alternate between positive and negative. The first difference
(if one exists) may be either positive or negative. A sequence with one element
and a sequence with two non-equal elements are trivially wiggle sequences.

* For example, `[1, 7, 4, 9, 2, 5]` is a wiggle sequence because the differences
`(6, -3, 5, -7, 3)` alternate between positive and negative.
* In contrast, `[1, 4, 7, 2, 5]` and `[1, 7, 4, 5, 5]` are not wiggle sequences.
The first is not because its first two differences are positive, and the second
is not because its last difference is zero.

A subsequence is obtained by deleting some elements (possibly zero) from the
original sequence, leaving the remaining elements in their original order.

Given an integer array `nums`, return the length of the longest wiggle
subsequence of `nums`.

## Solution

Seeing **finding a longest sequence**, dynamic programming probably should be
the first thing coming to mind.

We should have two table that keeps track of:
1. The longest wiggle sequence that ends with a **increasing number**.
2. The longest wiggle sequence that ends with a **decreasing number**.

Therefore, when iterating though the given array, we could first check if this
`nums[i]` a increasing / decreasing number compared to the `nums[i-1]`. If
increasing, then the previous number must ends with decreasing (in order to
satisfy the requirement of a wiggle sequence). So take the last number in the
decreasing table, append it to the increasing table and add 1. For decreasing dp
table, we simply copy the last number from itself.

The opposite also be could be done easily.
And if the numbers are equal, we simply ignore it as a wiggle sequence cannot
have difference = 0.

## Implementation

Time complexity of this algorithm is $O(n)$.
We could further improve its space complexity as we know that in each iteration,
the algorithm only checks the last element in both increase / decrease dp table.
Therefore, two integer variable would be sufficient for this, making its space
complexity to be $O(1)$.

```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    int wiggleMaxLength(vector<int>& nums) {
        int lastInc = 1, lastDec = 1;

        for (size_t i = 1; i < nums.size(); i++) {
            int diff = nums[i] - nums[i-1];
            if (diff > 0) {
                lastInc = lastDec + 1;
            }
            else if (diff < 0) {
                lastDec = lastInc + 1;
            }
        }

        return max(lastInc, lastDec);
    }
};
```